README.md, before:

# Cloudify Ansible Plugin

The Ansible plugin enables you to configure Cloudify resources with Ansible
and provides an agentless method for executing operations on remote hosts.

## Playbook Run Operation

Similar to the Script Plugin and the Fabric Plugin, there is no one node type
associated with the Ansible plugin. Instead, you modify existing node types to
perform one or more of their lifecycle operations using the Ansible plugin and
any additional inputs that you provide.

## Node types

### cloudify.nodes.ansible.Executor

Ansible Playbook Executor Node uses
[ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run](#ansiblecloudify_ansibletasksrun) as `start`
action.

**Properties:**
* `site_yaml_path`: A path to your `site.yaml` or `main.yaml` in your Ansible
  Playbook.
* `sources`: Your Inventory sources. Either YAML or a path to a file. If not
  provided the inventory will be take from the `sources` runtime property.
* `run_data`: Variable values.
* `options_config`: Command-line options, such as `tags` or `skip_tags`.
* `ansible_env_vars`: A dictionary of environment variables to set.
  Default is `{"ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING": "False"}`.
* `debug_level`: Debug level.

## Operations

### ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run

Execute the equivalent of `ansible-playbook` on the Ansible Playbook provided
in the `site_yaml_path` input.

**Inputs:**
* `site_yaml_path`: A path to your `site.yaml` or `main.yaml` in your
  Ansible Playbook.
* `sources`: Your Inventory sources. Either YAML or a path to a file.
  If not provided the inventory will be take from the `sources`
  runtime property.
* `run_data`: Variable values.
* `options_config`: Command-line options, such as `tags` or `skip_tags`.
* `ansible_env_vars`: A dictionary of environment variables to set.
* `debug_level`: Debug level, Default is 2.

In addition, you can provide additional key-word args parameters to the
`AnsiblePlaybookFromFile` class, such as `options_config`.

## Inventory Sources

**There are also two methods for generating the sources parameter
automatically, see [using compute nodes](#using-compute-nodes) and
[Relationships](#using-relationships).**

For all inventory sources, we require these parameters:
* `ansible_host`: The hostname or IP address of the host to SSH into.
* `ansible_user`: The username to SSH with.
* `ansible_ssh_private_key_file`: The private key file to SSH with.

In addition, we handle these parameters if provided (and highly recommend them):
* `ansible_become`: A boolean value, `true` or `false` whether to assume the
  user privileges.
* `ansible_ssh_common_args`: Additional arguments to the SSH command like,
  we suggest, `'-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'`.

For more information on the sources format in YAML, see
[Ansible Inventory YAML](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#hosts-and-groups).


## Using Compute Nodes

If your operation is mapped on the lifecycle operation of a node template
derived from `cloudify.nodes.Compute`, we will attempt to generate the `sources`
parameter from the node properties.

### Example Compute Node

Provision some component on a VM.

```yaml
  compute_and_component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Compute
    properties:
      ip: { get_input: ip }
      agent_config:
        install_method: none
        key: { get_input: private_key_path }
        user: { get_input: username }
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        start:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/component/site.yaml
```


## Using Relationships

Use the `cloudify.ansible.relationships.connected_to_host` relationship defined
in the plugin to populate the sources parameter, if the target node is derived
from `cloudify.nodes.Compute`.

**Inputs:**
* `group_name`: Ansible node group name
* `hostname`: Hostname
* `host_config`: Host configuration:
  * `ansible_host`: The hostname or IP address of the host to SSH into.
  * `ansible_user`: The username to SSH with.
  * `ansible_ssh_private_key_file`: The private key file to SSH with.
  * `ansible_become`: A boolean value, `true` or `false` whether to assume the
    user privileges.
  * `ansible_ssh_common_args`: Additional arguments to the SSH command,
    by default: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'

### Example Relationship Usage

```yaml
  component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        start:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/component/site.yaml
            sources: { get_attribute: [ SELF, sources ] }
    relationships:
      - type: cloudify.ansible.relationships.connected_to_host
        target: compute

  compute:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Compute
    properties:
      ip: { get_input: ip }
      agent_config:
        install_method: none
        key: { get_input: private_key_path }
        user: { get_input: username }
```


## More Examples

Basic usage with no special node or relationship type behavior.

```yaml
  my_node:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        create:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/my_ansible_playbook/site.yaml
            sources:
              webservers:
                hosts:
                  web:
                    ansible_host: { get_input: ip }
                    ansible_user: { get_input: username }
                    ansible_ssh_private_key_file: { get_input: private_key_path }
                    ansible_become: true
                    ansible_ssh_common_args: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'
```

Passing `run_data` at runtime:

```yaml
  component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        create:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/my_ansible_playbook/site.yaml
            sources:
              foo_group:
                hosts:
                  foo_host:
                    ansible_host: { get_input: ip }
                    ansible_user: { get_input: username }
                    ansible_ssh_private_key_file: { get_input: private_key_path }
                    ansible_become: true
                    ansible_ssh_common_args: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'
            run_data:
              foo: bar
```

# Examples
For official blueprint examples using this Cloudify plugin, please see [Cloudify Community Blueprints Examples](https://github.com/cloudify-community/blueprint-examples/).

Commit message:

RD-5426-Add-Custom-Facts-Support (#136)
* RD-5426-Add-Custom-Facts-Support

* RD-5426-Add-Custom-Facts-Support-Example

README.md, after:

# Cloudify Ansible Plugin

The Ansible plugin enables you to configure Cloudify resources with Ansible
and provides an agentless method for executing operations on remote hosts.

## Playbook Run Operation

Similar to the Script Plugin and the Fabric Plugin, there is no one node type
associated with the Ansible plugin. Instead, you modify existing node types to
perform one or more of their lifecycle operations using the Ansible plugin and
any additional inputs that you provide.

## Node types

### cloudify.nodes.ansible.Executor

Ansible Playbook Executor Node uses
[ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run](#ansiblecloudify_ansibletasksrun) as `start`
action.

**Properties:**
* `site_yaml_path`: A path to your `site.yaml` or `main.yaml` in your Ansible
  Playbook.
* `sources`: Your Inventory sources. Either YAML or a path to a file. If not
  provided the inventory will be take from the `sources` runtime property.
* `run_data`: Variable values.
* `options_config`: Command-line options, such as `tags` or `skip_tags`.
* `ansible_env_vars`: A dictionary of environment variables to set.
  Default is `{"ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING": "False"}`.
* `debug_level`: Debug level.

**NOTE** there is a special handling for "ANSIBLE_FACT_PATH" environment variable, where you could add custom `.fact` files -which could be executable that Ansible expect JSON on stdout. If you include files that are not executable and simply contain raw JSON then Ansible will just read them and use the data inside - when gather facts is triggered they will be part of `runtime_properties.facts.ansible_local.{fact_file_name}`

For example you could do something like this inside your playbook:

```yaml
- hosts: all
  connection: local

  tasks:

    - name: "Set fact: output dictionary"
      set_fact:
        output_dict:
          just_a_test: "my value from ansible gathered fact !!"

    - name: "Creates facts directory if it doesn't exist"
      file:
        path: "{{ lookup('ansible.builtin.env', 'ANSIBLE_FACT_PATH') }}"
        state: directory

    - name: "Insert custom fact file"
      copy:
        content: "{{ output_dict | to_nice_json }}"
        dest: "{{ lookup('ansible.builtin.env', 'ANSIBLE_FACT_PATH') }}/custom.fact"
        mode: 0644
```


## Operations

### ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run

Execute the equivalent of `ansible-playbook` on the Ansible Playbook provided
in the `site_yaml_path` input.

**Inputs:**
* `site_yaml_path`: A path to your `site.yaml` or `main.yaml` in your
  Ansible Playbook.
* `sources`: Your Inventory sources. Either YAML or a path to a file.
  If not provided the inventory will be take from the `sources`
  runtime property.
* `run_data`: Variable values.
* `options_config`: Command-line options, such as `tags` or `skip_tags`.
* `ansible_env_vars`: A dictionary of environment variables to set.
* `debug_level`: Debug level, Default is 2.

In addition, you can provide additional key-word args parameters to the
`AnsiblePlaybookFromFile` class, such as `options_config`.

## Inventory Sources

**There are also two methods for generating the sources parameter
automatically, see [using compute nodes](#using-compute-nodes) and
[Relationships](#using-relationships).**

For all inventory sources, we require these parameters:
* `ansible_host`: The hostname or IP address of the host to SSH into.
* `ansible_user`: The username to SSH with.
* `ansible_ssh_private_key_file`: The private key file to SSH with.

In addition, we handle these parameters if provided (and highly recommend them):
* `ansible_become`: A boolean value, `true` or `false` whether to assume the
  user privileges.
* `ansible_ssh_common_args`: Additional arguments to the SSH command like,
  we suggest, `'-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'`.

For more information on the sources format in YAML, see
[Ansible Inventory YAML](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#hosts-and-groups).


## Using Compute Nodes

If your operation is mapped on the lifecycle operation of a node template
derived from `cloudify.nodes.Compute`, we will attempt to generate the `sources`
parameter from the node properties.

### Example Compute Node

Provision some component on a VM.

```yaml
  compute_and_component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Compute
    properties:
      ip: { get_input: ip }
      agent_config:
        install_method: none
        key: { get_input: private_key_path }
        user: { get_input: username }
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        start:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/component/site.yaml
```


## Using Relationships

Use the `cloudify.ansible.relationships.connected_to_host` relationship defined
in the plugin to populate the sources parameter, if the target node is derived
from `cloudify.nodes.Compute`.

**Inputs:**
* `group_name`: Ansible node group name
* `hostname`: Hostname
* `host_config`: Host configuration:
  * `ansible_host`: The hostname or IP address of the host to SSH into.
  * `ansible_user`: The username to SSH with.
  * `ansible_ssh_private_key_file`: The private key file to SSH with.
  * `ansible_become`: A boolean value, `true` or `false` whether to assume the
    user privileges.
  * `ansible_ssh_common_args`: Additional arguments to the SSH command,
    by default: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'

### Example Relationship Usage

```yaml
  component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        start:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/component/site.yaml
            sources: { get_attribute: [ SELF, sources ] }
    relationships:
      - type: cloudify.ansible.relationships.connected_to_host
        target: compute

  compute:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Compute
    properties:
      ip: { get_input: ip }
      agent_config:
        install_method: none
        key: { get_input: private_key_path }
        user: { get_input: username }
```


## More Examples

Basic usage with no special node or relationship type behavior.

```yaml
  my_node:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        create:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/my_ansible_playbook/site.yaml
            sources:
              webservers:
                hosts:
                  web:
                    ansible_host: { get_input: ip }
                    ansible_user: { get_input: username }
                    ansible_ssh_private_key_file: { get_input: private_key_path }
                    ansible_become: true
                    ansible_ssh_common_args: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'
```

Passing `run_data` at runtime:

```yaml
  component:
    type: cloudify.nodes.Root
    interfaces:
      cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle:
        create:
          implementation: ansible.cloudify_ansible.tasks.run
          inputs:
            site_yaml_path: resources/my_ansible_playbook/site.yaml
            sources:
              foo_group:
                hosts:
                  foo_host:
                    ansible_host: { get_input: ip }
                    ansible_user: { get_input: username }
                    ansible_ssh_private_key_file: { get_input: private_key_path }
                    ansible_become: true
                    ansible_ssh_common_args: '-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no'
            run_data:
              foo: bar
```

# Examples
For official blueprint examples using this Cloudify plugin, please see [Cloudify Community Blueprints Examples](https://github.com/cloudify-community/blueprint-examples/).
